Audits and assessments really do have the ability to set
an organization security strategy for an entire calendar year.
The reason for that is audits are designed to root out failure,
your goal is to expose where the organization is failing.
That probably sounds a little counter-intuitive.
We've spent our whole life trying to avoid admitting failure or
mistakes and here we might be paying for someone to find as many as possible,
it sounds like a scary proposition.
Imagine being responsible for operational security for
a company and an auditor finds hundreds of security failures.
It happens all the time.
But that's why this section is so important.
As a GRC professional,
you have a responsibility to manage audits in a way that makes them productive,
non-threatening, and without too many surprises.
If managed properly, they'll help set strategic direction,
set budgetary needs, prove compliance with standards,
and expose control weakness or failure.
As explained earlier, it's certainly better to expose failure
in an audit rather than as part of a customer assessment.
Before we talk about how to manage audits,
it's important to understand that there are many different types.
We're not talking about how the audits originate or the goals,
but we are talking about how the audits are actually performed.
They're question-based assessments, meaning that you'll be answering
questions about controls and often providing supporting documentation.
They're technical assessments aimed at looking at technical security controls,
only either automated or otherwise,
thinking about things like code reviews or vulnerability and penetration tests.
There could also be fully manual assessments,
things like configuration settings,
again, code reviews, or where we see this a lot is reviewing policies and procedures.
There are also interviews,
meaning literal interviews of IT personnel and business stakeholders,
and then finally, there're onsite assessments,
which could literally mean any of the things that we just discussed.
Let's put some of what we just learned to work.
A customer wants to perform an audit.
They want to assess whether the security mechanisms you
have in place to support them are functioning as expected.
Now they've requested to perform a penetration test and a vulnerability assessment.
What kind of assessment are they asking to perform? That's right.
Both of these appear to be technical assessments.
The big question, however,
is will you allow the customer to perform the test?
We've already said that some customers
have contractual rights to assess your security environment,
but it's part of your role to understand exactly what they've contracted to do.
It's also important to understand
what standards the customer is planning to assess you against.
What if the customer is planning to assess you or
your controls against a really strict standard,
maybe one that your organization doesn't follow?
That's where you can really get into some trouble.
One last point here, what if this were a prospective customer?
Chances are you're not going to allow
prospective customers to assess your environment because it's
going to create the opportunity for non-customers to make
demands of the organization without any future obligations.
All of these things are things that you'll need to consider when you're managing audits.